<main>

# Hacking Team: Hardware

The field of hardware may seem distant from that of hacking,
but in fact many advanced exploits require an understanding
of how hardware works.

## CPU

The CPU, or central processing unit, executes instructions
from software. They are best at handling a few intensive
calculations.

Sometime, CPU's have a small weak embedded graphics
processing unit. This helps reduce the cost of PC's geared
towards office work; a more powerful dedicated graphics card
would go mostly unused.

## GPU

The GPU, or graphics processing unit, is meant to handle
many quick-to-compute calculations. As it may happen, many
calculations needed to render lighting and other graphics
fall into this category. Another example is cryptocurrency.

Because graphics cards are so good at parallel computation,
they are the superior alternative to CPU's when it comes to
brute-forcing password hashes.

## RAM

RAM, or random access memory, is extremely fast
temporary storage in which running programs store
information in.

You can image RAM like a row of thousands of cubbies. Every
cubby has its own address. Because each cubby can only hold
so much, a program may have to store its data over multiple
cubbies.
 
Understanding how programs access RAM is arguably the most
important element of hardware as it applies to hacking.
Memory insecurities caused by erroneous programming are one
of the most frequently exploited vulnerabilities.

## PSU

The PSU, or power supply unit, converts the alternating
current from your wall outlet to direct current that your
computer can use.

## HDD/SSD

Hard disk drives and solid state drives keep persistent data
even when you turn off your computer. Remember, this is
unlike RAM which requires power to store data. Typically,
it is slower to access data on hard drives than SSD's.

Note that most operating systems do not actually destroy the
contents of a file when it is deleted, they simply mark the
space the file occupied as free to be overwritten. These
'deleted' files can actually be recovered with the right
tools. Recovery can be prevented by overwriting the file
before deletion.

</main>
